---
layout: page
title: "APR: Adaptive page replacement scheme for scientific applications"
start_date: 2019-09-01
---

The amount of data utilized in modern computing workloads is increasing rapidly.
Meanwhile, the capacity of the main memory devices is growing slowly;
thus, memory management is playing an increasingly important role in application performance.
Recent scientific applications also process huge amount of data as well.
They tends to repeat core operations on intermediate data using loops,
and the data is typically maintained in anonymous pages.
Unfortunately, such looping access patterns are hard to be correctly handled by LRU or CLOCK,
which are generally used as a page replacement policy in operating systems.
Moreover, anonymous pages are accessed in userspace directly;
this hinders adoption of previous works that update data structure (e.g., page lists) on every access.
In this paper, we propose Adaptive Page Replacement (APR) scheme, which deals with looping access patterns in scientific applications.
APR detects various looping access patterns online and handles them while considering the resulting
performance.
It is built upon limited events and information (e.g., page faults and access bits)
provided by the virtual memory subsystem of operating systems.
We evaluate APR by trace-driven simulation with traces extracted from 12 workloads in the SPLASH-2x benchmark.
Throughout the comparison with multiple previous schemes,
we demonstrate that APR successfully outperforms the previous schemes including CLOCK.
